our sun is insanely massive
want proof 99.86 percent of
all the mass in the solar system is the
mass of the sun
in particular the hydrogen and helium
it's made of
the remaining 0.14 percent is mostly the
mass of the solar system's
eight planets the sun's atmosphere is
hotter than the surface of the star
the surface temperature reaches 10 000
degrees fahrenheit
but the upper atmosphere heats up to
millions of degrees
venus is a champ when it comes to
volcanoes
the planet has about 1600 major ones but
none of them is known to erupt
the ocean on jupiter is larger than any
other in the solar system
but unlike earth's oceans it's made not
of water
but of metallic hydrogen the ocean's
depth is a mind-blowing 25
000 miles that's almost the same as the
distance around earth
with an average diameter of 2160 miles
the moon is the fifth largest satellite
in the solar system
after jupiter satellites ganymede
callisto and eo
and saturn's titan
there's a supermassive black hole 250
million light years away from us
it hums the deepest sound ever detected
from any object in the universe
it's 57 octaves lower than the middle c
on your piano
that's one quadrillion which is one with
15 zeros
times deeper than what we can hear
the milky way galaxy and the andromeda
galaxy
are going to meet in 3.75 billion years
they're moving towards each other at a
breakneck speed
when the two galaxies collide they'll
form a huge
elliptical galaxy i won't be around then
mercury is a few billion years old in
2016 scientists discover
some abnormalities on the planet's
surface showing that it's getting
smaller after more research they found
out that mercury hadn't finished cooling
down yet
astronauts in space can lose about one
percent of their muscle mass
each month to prevent this they have to
stick to an exercise regimen
that lasts two hours every single day
venus spins at its own unhurried pace
a full rotation takes 243 earth days
and it takes the planet a bit less than
earth days to go all the way around the
sun
it means a day on venus is longer than a
year
you can see solar eclipses because even
though the moon is 400 times smaller
than the sun
it's also 400 times closer to earth so
it's perfectly capable of obscuring the
star
but in 50 million years i won't be
around then
the moon won't be able to block the sun
completely because of the satellites
changing orbit
the highest mountain in the solar system
is olympus mons on mars
it's three times as high as mount
everest the earth's highest
mountain above sea level if you were
standing on top of olympus mods
you wouldn't understand you were
standing on a mountain its slopes would
be hidden by the planet's curvature
a full nasa spacesuit costs an
unbelievable 12 million dollars
yeah i can believe that 70 percent of
this hefty sum
is for the control module and backpack
astronomers have found a massive
reservoir of water in space
the largest ever detected too bad it's
also the farthest
12 billion light years away from us the
water vapor cloud holds 140 trillion
times as much water
as all the earth's oceans combined
space isn't supposed to be black there
are stars
everywhere shouldn't they light up
everything around you don't see stars
wherever you look
because some of them haven't existed
long enough for their light to reach
earth
at first sight the moon seems to be as
large as the sun
but it's just an illusion the star is
400 times bigger than the earth
satellite
it's also 400 times farther from us than
the moon
that's why these space bodies look as if
they're of the same size
saturn has a moon called pan and it
looks like a ravioli
it's only 20 miles across and works as a
shepherd to the matter that makes up
saturn's rings
the moon clears an empty space between
the rings known as the enki gap
and keeps it free from ring particles
all of the planets of the solar system
would fit between earth and the moon
with some space to spare
there are huge temperature fluctuations
on the moon
close to the satellite's equator the
temperature rises from minus
279 degrees at night to 260 degrees in
the afternoon
saturn's rings are very thin compared to
its size
if you had a scale model of the planet
that was three feet wide
the rings would be ten thousand times
thinner than a razor blade
mercury is a few billion years old in
2016 scientists discovered some
abnormalities on the planet's surface
showing that it's getting smaller after
more research
they found out that mercury hasn't
finished cooling down yet
even though venus is the hottest planet
in our solar system
it still has snow but it's not what you
expect
its nose metals and rains acid not a
great vacation spot
a day on uranus lasts 17 hours 14
minutes and 24 seconds
but get this the planet has a tilt of
around 98 degrees
and that makes a season on the gas giant
last 21 earth years
mars has two moons phobos and deimos
in the next 30 to 50 million years mars
gravitational forces
will tear phobos apart and it will
likely result in the formation of a ring
around the planet
i won't be around that if there was no
gravity in space
the earth wouldn't be able to hold the
moon near itself
all the planets and stars would just fly
across the universe freely
bump into each other and well it would
probably end things really quickly
gravity can be tiny but never absent
this is one of the laws as for
astronauts and the iss
the earth's gravity is only 10 percent
less in orbit than it is on the ground
if we build a platform 190 to 250 miles
high
it's the altitude of the iss above earth
and throw a stone from there it will
fall down
just the same way it falls down from
your balcony
our planet's inner core is as hot as the
sun's surface
yeah it's mostly solid iron and nickel
surrounded by super hot liquid
and heated up to 10 800 degrees
fahrenheit
astronauts tasted the first food grown
and harvested in space in 2015
it was red romaine lettuce that had been
growing in a special chamber for 15
months
the fact that in the near future people
might not need to bring huge amounts of
food to space
means we can explore further and longer
without running out of supplies
there are more than 120 million pieces
of junk
orbiting earth sadly all this space
trash was left by us
humans space debris moves at a breakneck
speed of 17
500 miles per hour around our planet
just
don't get in the way you might have
noticed
that there are no solar winds on our
planet for that
you can thank the earth's nickel iron
core coupled with the planet's fast
rotational speed
these two factors combined create a
strong protective
magnetic field the solar system is 4.6
billion years old
so old it's a senior solar system
scientists came to this conclusion after
they studied the oldest material they
managed to get a hold of
and by that i mean meteorites of course
you probably heard of methane gas a
byproduct of natural processes
such as volcanic activity and cows
anyway this gas is not only a part of
the martian atmosphere
but also the thing that confuses
astronomers to no end
the thing is that the volume of methane
on mars keeps wavering
and scientists just can't figure out
where it might be coming from
can there be cows on mars earth might
not be the only tectonically active
planet in the solar system
astronomers have spotted some land forms
looking like cliffs on mercury
if it's so the tectonic activity could
explain
the rapid shrinking of the planet in
most sci-fi movies about space
the main character gets into an asteroid
belt and must dodge
countless rocks that threaten to damage
their spacecraft
well sorry to disappoint but that's
nothing like the real thing
the only asteroid belt astronomers know
about is located between
mars and jupiter there are thousands of
asteroids in this region
but they're so widely spaced that the
chance of collision is next to nothing
ah you just ruined it sorry
behind the orbit of neptune lies the
mysterious
kuiper belt filled with massive icy
objects
the most curious thing about this space
formation though
is that scientists can't explain the
pattern of its movement
the only explanation they have is that
neptune might be hiding a ginormous
planet from our site
earth has a strong magnetic field thanks
to two important factors
its nickel iron core and a pretty fast
axial rotation
the magnetic field is vital for earth
because it protects the planet from the
impact of solar winds
we think of our planet's magnetic field
as something constant and stable
but the truth is that is changing
some scientists believe that our planet
used to have an additional satellite
according to their research a smaller
celestial body
about 750 miles wide orbited the earth
just like a second moon
it most likely crashed into our main
satellite later on
such a collision could explain why the
two sides of the moon look so different
from each other
one being heavily cratered and rough now
earthquakes or rather
moonquakes on the moon aren't something
from science fiction
they actually happen they don't occur as
often as those on earth
but they are much deeper and closer to
the center of our satellite
about halfway between the surface and
the core
about 20 million tons of gold can be
found inside our very own planet
and in the seas if all this precious
metal could be extracted
it would be enough to cover the entire
surface of the planet
in a two foot layer of gold and if we
gave
everyone an equal piece each one of
earth's inhabitants would get nine
pounds of this treasure
now dr shill de sarma a microbial
geneticist from the university of
maryland
hypothesizes which is a 10 scientific
word for
guesses that our planet was once purple
he thinks that ancient microbes probably
didn't use chlorophyll
but other molecules to process sunlight
these molecules most likely would have
given
a violet hue to the microbes turning the
entire planet
purple man prince was born way too early
he would have loved that
the great red spot on jupiter is a
gargantuan storm that's been raging for
at least 400 years now
back when it was first found it was
three times the size of our whole planet
the farthest we can see into space today
is 13.2
billion light years it took the hubble
space telescope 10 years to make a
single
image that far the universe is thought
to be 13.7 billion years old
but it's constantly expanding and now
it's probably about 93 billion light
years in diameter
but that's only what we can observe
scientists believe there's trillions
upon trillions of light years of space
beyond the edge of the observable
universe
comets are thought to come to the solar
system from the oort
cloud a theoretical asteroid field
that's about 2
000 times as far from us as the sun
the largest asteroid in the solar system
is called vesta
and it's so big that it's sometimes even
called a dwarf planet
[Music]
a trip to the nearest star apart from
the sun would take you
five million years on a commercial
airplane that's what i call a
long-haul flight